/// Application of BlockChain 

1-- Product Tracking
A blockchain product manager is responsible for developing blockchain-based products in a company. In reality, this practice is called product management. Basically, the product managers are capable of creating a strategy behind a product and oversee the launch of that product from start to the very end.



2--Smart Contract
Smart contracts use blockchain technology to execute agreements. The six-step process of executing a smart contract begins with the parties agreeing to the terms and conditions, and ends with a record being placed on the blockchain. Smart contracts can enhance process efficiency, but they’re not without risk.

3--International Wire Transfer
Remittances and other cross-border financial payments are a large and technically challenging aspect of global finance. Because of the need for permissions and rules for use in cross-border payments, private blockchains are receiving increased attention in this space.
   
   //Current Challenges
   In conventional cross-border payments, the transaction is handled jointly by the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT), and the banks involved. SWIFT specifies the exchange format and provides the network, and the banks do the debiting and crediting. This means that SWIFT and each bank can charge transaction fees, with SWIFT’s fees increasing according to traffic volume. While the correspondent banking infrastructure was ‘de-risked’ following the 2009 financial crisis, leading to fewer banks and correspondent accounts, this also created further delays in transactions.

    //Blockchain Solutions
    How might blockchain tech be improved to better meet the needs of cross-border payments? One potential avenue is to speed up transactions while maintaining the security of the blockchain. Bitcoin is difficult to use as a traditional banking system since each transaction needs to be verified by each node in the network. There are ideas for how to get around this, like dividing blocks further into epochs and designating a leader of each epoch to verify transactions. Banks are also experimenting with blockchain tech independently, on private blockchains. This localization allows for innovation without the need for banks to coordinate with other entities. In this way, the current cross-border blockchain space resembles the beginnings of the SWIFT system.


  4-- HealthCare System

  Blockchain is an emerging technology being applied for creating innovative solutions in various sectors, including healthcare. A Blockchain network is used in the healthcare system to preserve and exchange patient data through hospitals, diagnostic laboratories, pharmacy firms, and physicians. Blockchain applications can accurately identify severe mistakes and even dangerous ones in the medical field. Thus, it can improve the performance, security, and transparency of sharing medical data in the health care system. This technology is helpful to medical institutions to gain insight and enhance the analysis of medical records. In this paper, we studied Blockchain technology and its significant benefits in healthcare. Various Capabilities, Enablers, and Unified Work-Flow Process of Blockchain Technology to support healthcare globally are discussed diagrammatically. Finally, the paper identifies and debates fourteen significant applications of Blockchain for healthcare. Blockchain plays a decisive part in handling deception in clinical trials; here, the potential of this technology offer is to improve data efficiency for healthcare. It can help avoid the fear of data manipulation in healthcare and supports a unique data storage pattern at the highest level of security. It provides versatility, interconnection, accountability, and authentication for data access. For different purposes, health records must be kept safe and confidential. Blockchain helps for the decentralised protection of data in healthcare and avoids specific threats.

  1.2. Need of blockchain in healthcare
As far as healthcare is concerned, the urgency of development increases to more incredible speeds. Today the need is for quality health facilities supported by advanced and newer technologies. Here, Blockchain would play a critical role in transforming the healthcare sector. In addition, the landscape of the health system is moving towards a patient-centred approach focusing on two main aspects: accessible services and appropriate healthcare resources at all times. The Blockchain enhances healthcare organisations to provide adequate patient care and high-quality health facilities. Health Information Exchange is another time-consuming and repetitive process that leads to high health industry costs, quickly sorted out using this technology. Using Blockchain technology, citizens may take part in health study programs. In addition, better research and shared data on public wellbeing will enhance treatment for different communities. A centralised database is used to manage the entire healthcare system and organisations [[13], [14], [15]].

Until now, the most significant problems faced are data protection, sharing, and interoperability in population health management. This particular problem is reliable by using Blockchain. This technology enhances security, data exchange, interoperability, integrity, and real-time updating and access when correctly implemented. There are also significant concerns about data protection, especially in the fields of personalised medicine and wearables. Patients and medical personnel require safe and straightforward means of recording, sending, and consulting data over networks without safety concerns; thus, Blockchain technology is implemented to resolve these issues .